# KrigR
An `R` Package for downloading, preprocessing, and statistical downscaling of the European Centre for Medium-range Weather Forecasts ReAnalysis 5 (ERA5) family provided by the European Centre for Medium‐Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF).

KrigR contains functions for:  
- Downloading Era5(Land) data directly from within R  
- Downloading UERRA data directly from within R  
- Downloading USGS GMTED 2010 elevation data  
- Kriging spatial input to desired output using user-specified covariates  
- Downloading and Kriging Era5(Land) data using USGS GMTED 2010 elevation as covariate data in one function call  

**NOTE:** All kriging functionality can be parallelised for faster computing using the `Cores` argument.

# Abstract
Here we present a new R-package (KrigR) for acquiring and statistically downscaling climate data for ecological applications. The package is principally designed to make use of two of the most recent global reanalysis climate products from the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting: ERA5 and ERA5-land. These reanalysis products include numerous climate variables relevant for ecological applications including air temperature, precipitation, and soil moisture at hourly resolution and spatial resolutions of 30 by 30km and 9 by 9 km respectively.

Reanalysis products resolve issues of biases, discontinuities and inconsistencies within individual observational products (e.g. WorldClim, CRU), and represent the state-of-the-art knowledge on historical climate. While the hourly temporal resolution of the ERA5 data family marks a great improvement over many other climate data sets, this can be further improved using statistical downscaling to match the spatial resolution of such legacy datasets. Our package uses kriging to downscale the reanalysis output to a user-specified resolution, reliably up to one order of magnitude finer than the reanalysis product. Our approach in designing KrigR was to give the user as much freedom as possible while making the existing downloading and kriging methodology more streamlined. KrigR allows one to download any ERA5-family variable, at any given temporal resolution, in any chosen region (rectangular or as a shape) across the globe. Furthermore, while we supply the user with a downloading function for the covariates used for kriging, our kriging method does allow for user-input not generated by our download functions.

# Keywords
Climate data, Climate reanalysis, Interdisciplinary ecology, Macroecology, R, R Package, Statistical downscaling

# Workshop Material and Further Information
We have put together a comprehensive [workshop](https://www.erikkusch.com/post/krigr-mats/krigrworkshop/) that walks you through the functionality of the KrigR package. This workshop was presented during the BIOCHANGE Methods Workshop Series at Aarhus University. A recording of this presentation can be found on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wwb107L4wVw&ab_channel=ErikKusch). For any additional information on the project please refer to my [website](https://www.erikkusch.com/project/krigr/).
